I just wanted to start a chrome extension and figured I should check out what all the hype with the frontend tooling scene is all about. The ecosystem looks pretty amazing, however, it seemed like there wasn't a lot of content out there on how to make the chrome-extension work with require-js for modular JS, so I figured i'd write it down here.

## My situation

Generally, you don't have many dependencies/modules, so you could just manage them manually by listing them in the correct order in the manifest.json (jquery, backbone, models, controllers, views). 
However, I expected to have a reasonably complex app, so I figured i want a module loader like require-js manage the dependency tree. It gets a little more complicated if you have more than just a contentscript (since you to encourage maximum code sharing), but in my case, it was fine to just squash everything into one contentscript.js at the end.

Basically, you have to 

### Generate the scaffold

You can do that by simply following the instructions on https://github.com/yeoman/generator-chrome-extension and
https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt-contrib-requirejs for initial setup.

### Additions to Gruntfile.js:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/nambrot/32851dc9229334337eff.js"></script>

Basically, this tells to grunt to resolve the dependencies as expressed in contentscript_src with almond, with specified R.js config at contentscript_config.js and output everything into contentscript.js in the requirejs:contentscript task.

You'd probably also add this under the watch task to recompile anytime a significant file has changed:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/nambrot/d3cb72ffd80b55818b13.js"></script>


### Additions to contentscrupt_config.js:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/nambrot/57d12dd4db3bf51d875f.js"></script>

You wanna tell it about libs that aren't covered by the baseUrl. You can decide whether you want to load dependencies into the contentscript.js or just in the manifest.json.



